Chapter 1

Blades of frozen grass crunched through the silent night as he crossed the lawn. Moving swiftly, the man punched in the code for the side gate with robotic ease. A pair of eyes followed him through the backyard, hidden by the dark. 

“Thud, thud thud”. 
          
The door swung open and the man walked inside, closing it calmly behind him. 

A voice came from the side of the room. 

“Good evening Gordon, how are you?”. 

Sat on the edge of a window was an older man in his late 40’s. A gray beard hugged his smooth face, and tussles of wavy dark hair hung down his forehead. The room was dimly lit by a single hanging light. The floorboards creaked as Gordon stepped towards a single round table. He placed his bag on top of the table and took a seat. 

“Ah, you know how it is”, he replied, in a fatigued tone. 

“Want a drink?” 

“Why not”. 

The man pulled a bottle out the fridge and poured a glass of dark brown liquid.  Handing him the glass he took a seat at the table. 

Gordon took a healthy swig and placed the glass back down. Reaching into his bag he pulled a large orange envelope out and slid it across the table. The man didn’t immediately reach for it. 

They sat quietly as Gordon took another sip of his drink. 

“Any problems tonight?” the man asked after a few moments. 

“No, the job was clean. But I could tell they were alert. Had to sit there for a while before it got done”. 

The man nodded subtly. 

Their silence was not an uncomfortable one. It was the type of quiet two people who are familiar with each other usually share. It communicated an understanding. 

“I should have the next job for you sometime this week. Demand is good and so long as disaster doesn’t strike we’ll stay busy.” 

“I’ll be ready”, Gordon responded. 

With his final sip the glass was empty. The envelope remained unopened on the table as Gordon slowly rose to his feet. He gave the man a salutary nod and left through the same door he walked in. 

A few minutes passed before the man reached for the envelope. Slowly opening it, he pulled out an unorganized bundle of polaroid pictures. He reviewed each photo one by one, briefly scanning the pictures before placing them back on the table in a stack. He placed the last photo in the pile, and then put the empty envelope next to them.

He pulled a small phone out of his pocket and quickly typed a message. 

“Bread is baked”

He put the phone back in his pocket, got up from the table and left back into the house. Alone in the room were an assortment of photos of dead men and women. 

Chapter 2 

“Get the fuck outta here” 

Smack in the middle of Sunset Drive an argument broke out. The squabble was between two men.

The man seated was in his mid-late 20’s. He had long messy hair, and his weathered attire was not a fashion statement. 

Standing over him was an older man pushing 50. He had a bald head, with a scraggly beard lacking order. Shirtless with sagging pants the man excluded an aura of someone with nothing to lose. He was obviously homeless. 

“Eat a dick Ralph I got here first”, said the seated man. 

“I swear to god today is not the day Mike, today is not the fucking day” Ralph responded. Shaking his head he began pacing back and forth. He had a bucket in his hand that he threw on the floor, attempting to mark his territory. 

Mike stood up off the floor. 

“We go through this shit every day, you are wasting your time trying to fuck with me like this”.
“I’m shaky right now, I’m really shaky. I haven’t got any all day man I need this block right now, I fuckin need it”. Ralph was the stereotypical user. Bone thin, head jutted forward with a posture that signaled he was ready to fight or run for his life at any moment. 

Their argument revolved around a key piece of real estate in the downtown San Francisco area. Like most businesses, location is everything in the panhandling industry. Foot traffic = greater chance of dollars. More dollars = more drugs. More drugs = less reality. 

Ralph was a heavy user, and he had not got his high in a while. He was trying to grab a valuable spot to drum up some cash for a hit. However, Mike was not cooperating. 

“Back. The. Fuck. Off”, Mike said, getting in Ralph's face. 

Right as the situation was about to escalate a security guard approached. 

“You guys can’t be doing this here, get out”, he said calmly. 

Mike shook his head, upset that the disturbance had messed his hustle up. 

“Ralph you are such a fuckin idiot” he said. 

He grabbed his bag from the floor and stormed off, leaving the security guard to bicker with Ralph, who was not as cooperative. 

As he turned the corner down Main Street, Mike reached in his pocket. Without pulling anything out he counted roughly $7 dollars in change. Not a lot, but it would have to do. 

Maneuvering the streets he ended up at the Rack, an open air drug market. Decriminalization of all drugs in the state had the benefit of allowing business to be conducted in a rapid and efficient manner. Any user needing a fix could be served within a few minutes of entering the dome. 

The area was a wasteland of human potential. Strung out users riddled the block corner, needles and litter scattered across the pavement. Many users were “nodding out”, in a position where they are bent over at the waist seemingly asleep, but have not fallen over. Their bodies refused to fall. 

In the center of the drug market was where transactions occurred. A horde of potential buyers huddled around a few hooded figures. For an extremely volatile customer base, things were rather well run, with violence uncommon. All parties' incentives were aligned.

Mike walked into the mass and searched for his guy. He had been doing business with a younger gentleman named Dean for about 2 weeks now. Scanning through the crowd he found him.
Dean was a tall, well-built young black man from south central. He was a former D1 basketball player at CalTech, with a full ride scholarship. However, after back to back knee injuries his career was cut short. Left with few options and a rescinded scholarship, he found himself with no job, no money and no way to support himself. Like so many others with no real options, he resorted to the drug game. 

Dean was finishing a sale to a younger woman as Mike approached. 

“Thanks baby you are just the sweetest thing”, the woman said, flashing a semi-toothless smile. 

Dean nodded back without saying anything. He was fairly new to the drug game, but was smart enough to know there is a big difference between customers and friends, especially when you’re selling drugs. 

As the woman left Mike approached. 

“Dean what’s good” 

“Yo, what you need dog”.

“How far can $5 bucks get me.”

“Far enough,” he responded. 

Mike reached into his pocket and passed him 5 crimped dollar bills. Dean quickly counted it out and then placed the money in his pocket. The then reached into a fanny-pack wrapped in front of his chest and passed Mike a small baggy. The entire transaction was over in less than a minute. 

“Good looks bro thanks” Mike said. 

“Stay safe dog” Dean responded.

Mike walked off back into the night, with a little more pep in his step then he had arrived at the park. 

Chapter 3 


Humans have significant portions of their brains dedicated to navigation. Remembering where you were,how to get to where you wanted to go and most importantly how to do that safely was often the difference between life and death. While modern day humans outsourced this task to technology, people like Mike have redeveloped what is now a lost art. 

Maneuvering the inner city alleys, crooks and underground systems was just as much about understanding locations as it was the people in these spots. The city was gang-infested, and many people had been killed over territory encroachments. Add into the mix a volatile zombie hoard of drug addicts with nothing better to do than pick on an out of place person, and it makes sense why people like Mike had to be on their P’s and Q’s at all times. 

Sliding through a seemingly random alley Mike disappeared from the crowded street. He walked past strung out users lying on the floor, with a sense of purpose at all times. Timidity and hesitation are a recipe for disaster around dangerous people.

Falling deeper into the maze of corridors, Mike arrived at this destination. Squeezing his lean body through the rusty bars, Mike entered a basement window. This place had been home for Mike for about 3 weeks, and it had been a sweet spot. 

He found the basement by chance just wandering. Street-dwellers were always looking for shelter from the elements and an indoor location was deeply coveted. It was in the basement of an abandoned building currently undergoing construction. The renovators were cutting costs and did not have any security overnight, leaving Mike with a perfect sleep station.

He walked to his preferred corner and set up his station for the night. 

Corralled from the cool autumn breeze, Mike initiated his all too common ritual. In mechanical fashion he retrieved a string, small pillow and nylon case from the depths of his backpack. 

He placed the small pillow under his behind for a cushion, and then opened the case. Inside it he pulled out a disposable syringe, lighter and metal spoon. Placing the syringe on the ground he reached back into his pocket and retrieved the baggy that Dean handed him. 

Cuddled inside the foggy white baggy were a cluster of small crystals, huddled at the bottom. With expert precision Mike shook out a tactical amount on the metal spoon. The spoon was held at eye-level as the bright red flame from the light met its bottom. Crystals slowly melted, and soon a suspicious white solution floated gently inside the spoon. 

Drug addicts say the high doesn’t start once they get a hit, but once the drugs are in their possession. Mike had felt a calmness take over his body from the moment he received the package from Dean. He was in nirvana before the drugs even hit his system.

“Wooosh”, came out of Mike's mouth as he slumped down the wall. A wave of warmth penetrated his body, turning him into a blob of synthetic happiness. He slowly put the syringe down, and just managed to place the spoon on the floor before the room turned pitch black. 



Chapter 4 
“Homelessness crisis reaches critical levels, patrons call for state of emergency”. 

Gordon read the headline from a window tv as he walked down Central Drive.

Going for a walk took a whole new meaning in downtown LA. A traditionally relaxing activity, one must traverse tweaked out junkies, errant needles, aggressive panhandlers and human excrement with every step. The streets were riddled with dangers. 

The local population was still sympathetic, but patience has its limits. As the petty theft, murders, rapes and general eyesores amplified over the years even the staunchest advocates for the homeless population began to raise questions. 

Politicians had promised the world and back. Affordable housing, drug treatments, mental health counseling, shelters, the list goes on and on. However, what no one dared address was how these people affected the rest of the population. Business owners, kids walking to school, parents taking their dog on a walk. The crisis had reached an apex when a mother was gang raped by a group of homeless men. They snatched her in broad daylight and shoved her into an alley. Her baby was left unattended in a stroller on the sidewalk, while her poor mother fought for her life. 

The outcry was palpable, and the people were fed up. However, rallies to increase police protection, clean up the various homeless encampments and prosecute the litany of felons roaming the streets fell on deaf ears. For politicians the worst thing to do to a problem is solve it. 

Instead they decided to dance around the issue, focusing on “awareness”, understanding and compassion externally. Internally, they fought tooth and nail over the budget, inflating their departments to comical sizes, growing assistants and committee members in a circular bureaucratic ponzi. 

This left the everyday citizens stranded, stuck alone to deal with an ever-increasing swarm of homeless men and women. The homeless themselves had become stuck in the spiral of chaos, with no hand to help them pull themselves out of the depths of life on the street. 

However, where there is a problem, there is also an opportunity. Gordon had become the solution for many of these everyday civilians trying to operate in this chaotic mess. 

After a few minutes of walking he arrived at his destination. Taking a seat on a corner sidewalk patio he was greeted by a pretty young waitress.

“Good afternoon sir, how may I help you”. 

“Hi, can I get a coffee please. Just black”

“Absolutely, i'll be right back” she replied with a shy smile.
Although pushing 40, Gordon was a strikingly attractive man. Four years of college basketball, and a brief stint in the military had left him with a body designed for physical stress. He dressed conservative but clean, with a crisp white tee shirt and black pants snuggly draping his formed body. 

As he waited for his drink Gordon surveyed the area. He was on the corner of Main and Belmont. While a very in-demand area, this part of town was rife with lost souls. The street was a comical juxtaposition between multi-million dollar properties, high end restaurants/clubs, and tweaked out junkies, panhandlers  and homeless sleeping on the sidewalk. Those of higher economic class maneuvered the landmines of undesirables with a subconscious fluidity, as if they weren't even there. 

“TOM WHAT THE FUCK MAN”. 

A bustle of movement across the street helped Gordon identify where the scream had come from. Emerging from a slight alley ran a young man. Long scruffy hair flew behind his scrawny neck as the man steered cut to the left. 

“Bro chill out chill out”, said the man as he backed up. 

Following behind him was another man. His bald head glistened with sweat as they faced off. The bald man was clearly the aggressor. He wielded a long knife, known as a bonecrusher on the streets. The knife hung next to his knee as he stared down his opponent.

“TOM I LOVE YOU MAN BUT WHEN YOU DO SHIT LIKE THAT IT PISSES ME THE FUCK OFF”.

Both men were clearly high out of their mind. Some combination of drugs had the man not named Tom extremely agitated. The angry man wore a disordered collection of hairs on his head. His eyes hid sunken in his face, as if hiding from reality. With every step he took you could charge in his body, ready to fly in any direction with the spirit of amphetamines fueling every sinew in his narrow frame. 

 The most interesting part of this exchange was with seemingly zero reaction from the passersby. Men, women and even small children continued about their business, without a slight care or notice of the potential homicide a mere few steps away. 

The men sized each other up inside a bike lane. Tom, the man not yelling, finally spoke.

“Dude, I thought that was me, what do you mean chill out”.

“SHUT THE FUCK UP YOU KNOW WHAT YOU DID”. 

Just as the tweaking gentlemen raised his blade, a small flock of his homeless brethren surrounded the two men, and separated them. They scurried away back into the maze of adjacent alleys. 

Right as the commotion deescalated Gordon heard a faint knock on a glass panel behind him. Peering through a narrow crack in the curtain were a pair of striking blue eyes. A faint smile crept onto Gordons face as he grabbed his coffee and walked inside the cafe. 

Chapter 5 

“Humanitty is not for faggots”.

Mike read the graffiti on the side on a decrepit alley as he walked past. 

As any true addict knows, once a user's tolerance surpasses the terminal threshold they are only using to get to baseline. Their brain frys to a degree that whatever high they once felt is simply a return to a functional normal. This is where Mike found himself as he walked the downtown streets. His once hunched posture had been replaced with a semi-confident strut. He maneuvered the human traffic with relative ease, and walked with the confidence of a man who understood his destination.

His psyche felt as if a weight had been lifted. Humans are wired to be hyper-sensitve to the judgment of others. At least most are. One of the worst parts of being at the bottom of the social ladder is the constant non-verbal beratement from those not in that position. Gazes, smirks, worried expressions were like swift hooks to the gut for a man like Mike. Being in public was psychological torture. At least when he didn’t have his fix.

Now, however, it was manageable. With the boost to his system he was able to forget about all the things going wrong in his life, or at least shove them to the periphery of his mind. 

He skipped up a set of chalky white steps, and yanked a hard metal door with gated windows open. Mike approached a grayed plastic screen where a large caucasian woman sat on the other side.

“Hello”

The woman turned her head up. Her expression was as if she was offended to be disturbed. She took an uncomfortable amount of time to respond.

“What, do you want?”, she responded, emphasizing the what.

“I’m here for my stipend meeting”, said Mike. 

While the judgment from the public was painful, it was imperative to take absolutely nothing the people in the welfare offices communicate personally. If you thought the homeless were miserable you couldn’t imagine how much these welfare workers hated their lives. 

The lady let out a massive sigh. 

“What is your name” 

“Mike McCormick”. Mike slid a plastic id card through the slot at the bottom of the window. 

The lady slowly raised her arm and grabbed the card. She waved the card over a scanner and a dull beep rang through the small foyer. 

“Date of birth?”

“March 11th, 1995” 

“Address?”

“Uh the one on file should be 297 Lilly Gate” 

“Do you reside there now?”

“No”

“Do you have a place of residence right now?”

“Uh I’m in between places right now”, said Mike.

The girl let out another massive sigh. 

She typed away on a dusty keyboard then grabbed a small piece of paper that shot out of a computer. 

“Go through the door on your right and wait for your number” 

She passed the slip back to Mike with his card and he walked through the door on the right. 

You could smell the next room before you could see it. Inside the door to the right was a large waiting room littered with plastic chairs. At the far right of the room two dusty lcd screens illuminated a set of numbers. 

A loud ding rang through the room. 

The next number had just been announced. On the screen a large red 17 flashed. Mike looked down to his slip. 

“Fuck me”

The slip showed 35. He would have to get comfortable. 

He quickly scanned the room. The area was a diaspora. From immigrant families who barely spoke English, single mothers with babies in strollers, to clearly strung out junkies every component of the lower class was represented in this waiting room, looking for a bit of social assistance. 

Mike settled in a chair on the far left corner, second row from the back. In front of him were a hindi couple. They became visibly disturbed as he sat down, and the women took quite a few glances back at Mike to ensure he wasn’t going to lash out. 

The worst place for someone like Mike is to be stuck alone with his thoughts. The burden of homelessness was only bearable in motion. The inertial force of being stuck in this waiting room was dangerous in the sense that being stuck meant there was a possibility of reflection. A possibility for rumination. A possibility of the simple thought; 

“How the fuck did I end up here”. 

Mike grew up in San Diego. One of two children, he had a good childhood. His mom was a dental hygienist and father worked as a plumber. He did well in school and was a bright kid. He enjoyed his own company and kept to himself. But he was always uncomfortable. For whatever reason he struggled to fit in his own skin. 

The present moment was always uncomfortable, so he was in a constant pursuit of escape. It was books first, then sports. Then at 15 he found weed. To release the pressure of everyday he began smoking with frightening regularity. The insidious effect of marijuana slowly enveloped his life. School, friends, relationships all flew out of the window. Reality was not something to build upon, but instead it was a threat to his sanity. Real life became scary. Terrifying. It was something to avoid, something to be afraid of.  Mike began to run from reality, but that is a race impossible to win. 

His father died when he turned 17. Heart attack on the way home from work. Their family had been diligent with their money, but the savings could only last so long. His moms new boyfriend moved into their home around the time he turned 18. The two did not get along at all. After a verbal altercation became physical, Mike packed a backpack with vital necessities and stormed out the house, never to return. 

He bounced on couches for sometime, working odd jobs here and there to support himself. However, the burden of being a burden was too much for Mike to handle. In two months it would be his three year anniversary on the streets. 

The worst thing about being a loser is that you have to figure it out for yourself. The human mind has an incredible capacity to distort reality, in order to preserve some degree of sanity. The downward spiral of Mike’s life was never truly processed by him. Meaning, potential, fulfillment all fall far to the periphery when survival is unsecure. Whereas most people at 20 dream of a house, car, husband/wife, Mike was going to bed at night dreaming of a hot meal and a warm bed. 

He hadn’t talked to his brother since he left his house. His mom reached out a few times, tried to find out about him, but the tie had been severed. He avoided her at all costs. His silence was a quiet revenge for the abandonment he felt after his father died. She chose her boyfriend over him, or at least that's how he processed it. 

While everything started with weed, once he hit the streets things rapidly escalated. All of the homeless were on opioids, and he arrived right when the fentanyl boom began. He tried to avoid it for some time, but there is a social gravity to things like drugs that is challenging to fight. After one hit he was hooked. His life was spiraling down the drain but the addition of the opioids eradicated any hope of escape. 

Mike rarely reflected like this. In the worst moments he often felt sorry for himself. Why did his dad have to die? Why did he run away? Why didn’t his brother help him more? Why did his life turn out like this?

Right as he felt himself falling into a sorrow pit, a loud beep snapped him out of his gaze. 

“LAST CALL NUMBER 35 PLEASE COME TO THE FRONT” rang out over the PA system. 

Chapter 6 


Ding Ding

The clang of a silver spoon hitting a coffee cup softly rang through the shop. 

“1 spoon of sugar is my max, anymore and I can not stop yapping”.

“God forbid”, Gordon replied sarcastically. 

It’d been about half an hour and two coffees since that homeless encounter outside the shop. It was his first time at this location, the warm mahogany tables were accented pleasantly with some cream white cushions. They sat across from each other, but Gordon was angled 45 degrees towards the window. 

“I’m not thaaat bad. You should have seen me in college. I remember that was the hardest part of the LSAT. Like why can’t we talk, paperwork is important but this job is way more than that. You have to be articulate, personable, and get your message across like I don’t get it sometimes.”

“The defense rests,” Gordon replied as he took a sip of his coffee. 

“Shut up” she responded. 

The woman's blonde hair shimmered in the light as she tilted her head to take a sip of her coffee. Her striking blue eyes were surrounded by an angled face that looked made of a slightly tan porcelain.

They sat chatting for a few more minutes before leaving. Gordon slipped two crisp 20 dollar bills under the teacup and they walked out the front door.

Walking down Sunset Drive the scene was desolate. Gordon and his companion navigated the foot traffic with relative ease, keeping a sharp eye out for stray needles and junkies mid-tweak. 

They weren’t going far, Gordon lived roughly 10 minutes from the shop. He grabbed the woman's hand as they crossed the street, and continued holding as they entered a sleek, modern new condominium building. 

The contrast between the multi-million dollar properties riddled across this city, and complete squalor on the sidewalk never computed with Gordon. The city was one of the richest in the country, with all the taxes paid on these estates you would figure they could alleviate some of this wild dichotomy. But then again, if that happened he might be unemployed. 

“I love this lobby Gordon, it's sooo nice”, said the young woman. She slid her other hand up his husky arm and squeezed warmly. The lobby wasn’t the only thing she was a fan of. 

A clean, metal elevator whisked them up to the top floor of the building. Gordon took a left once the doors opened and pulled out a set of keys. They were jumbled in his pocket and he could hear the neighbors dogs barking as he jiggled his house key out of the tangled bunch. 

“Wow that is beautiful”, said the woman. 

A panorama of full glass windows wrapped around the back wall of the penthouse. Gordon had gone for a modern, minimalist approach. A wide, L sofa centered the large living area, with a wide screen tv on the far right side, and an industrial style, sleek dining table on the left. Gordon threw his keys on the wide kitchen island, and turned to the woman. 
“Whiskey or tequila?” 

Chapter 7 

Specs of dust shot out through the vent of an old laptop pc as it booted up. 

The old plastic keys made offensive clicks as an old man diligently tapped away. The man had clearly done this motion one hundred times prior, however, he clearly was not comfortable with technology. 

He typed in a series of seemingly meaningless characters into his browser and pressed enter. After providing some authentication credentials, a html style chatbot emerged on the screen with a message. 

“Tony we got the next job”. 

Tony was the old man's alias. He’d been doing business with this mysterious chat box for roughly 7 years. Tony preferred the old days. Payphones, hidden messages in newspapers, that's how real gangsters were supposed to do business. But, the times had changed and the fundamental rule of life persists, adapt or die. 

“details”, the man typed back, the man hit every key with his index finger, staring directly at the keyboard. 

“Wilshire and Lennox, spray wash and deep clean the sidewalk. Full job, ensure no weeds grow back also.”

“City approval?” the man responded. 

“Yep, green light. This is coming from the top”. 

“Deadline?”

“1 week, every day past is $10k less”.

“Copy” the man responded, and closed the laptop. He’d seen all he needed. 














 









 










